'There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact.', '
'Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself; but talent instantly recognizes genius.', '
'You have a grand gift for silence, ' Watson. It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.', '
'Education never ends, ' Watson. It is a series of lessons, ' with the greatest for the last.', '
'My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other people do not know.', '
'What you do in this world is a matter of no consequence. The question is what can you make people believe you have done.', '
'My mind', 'he said, ' , 'rebels at stagnation. Give me problems, ' give me work, ' give me the most abstruse cryptogram or the most intricate analysis, ' and I am in my own proper atmosphere. I can dispense then with artificial stimulants. But I abhor the dull routine of existence. I crave for mental exaltation. That is why I have chosen my own particular profession, ' or rather created it, ' for I am the only one in the world.', '
'Life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent. We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence. If we could fly out of that window hand in hand, ' hover over this great city, ' gently remove the roofs, ' and and peep in at the queer things which are going on, ' the strange coincidences, ' the plannings, ' the cross-purposes, ' the wonderful chains of events, ' working through generations, ' and leading to the most outre results, ' it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable.', '
'Excellent!', 'I cried. 'Elementary', 'said he.', '
'It may be that you are not yourself luminous, ' but that you are a conductor of light. Some people without possessing genius have a remarkable power of stimulating it.', '
'I am a brain, ' Watson. The rest of me is a mere appendix.', '
'The game is afoot.', '
'To a great mind, ' nothing is little', 'remarked Holmes, ' sententiously.', '
'I'm not a psychopath, ' I'm a high-functioning sociopath. Do your research.', '
'How often have I said to you that when you have eliminated the impossible, ' whatever remains, ' however improbable, ' must be the truth?', '
'Is there any point to which you would wish to draw my attention?'

'To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time.'

'The dog did nothing in the night-time.'

'That was the curious incident', 'remarked Sherlock Holmes.', '
'Dr. Watson's summary list of Sherlock Holmes's strengths and weaknesses:

'1. Knowledge of Literature: Nil.
2. Knowledge of Philosophy: Nil.
3. Knowledge of Astronomy: Nil.
4. Knowledge of Politics: Feeble.
5. Knowledge of Botany: Variable. Well up in belladonna, ' opium, ' and poisons generally. Knows nothing of practical gardening.
6. Knowledge of Geology: Practical but limited. Tells at a glance different soils from each other. After walks has shown me splashes upon his trousers, ' and told me by their colour and consistence in what part of London he had received them.
7. Knowledge of Chemistry: Profound.
8. Knowledge of Anatomy: Accurate but unsystematic.
9. Knowledge of Sensational Literature: Immense. He appears to know every detail of every horror perpetrated in the century.
10. Plays the violin well.
11. Is an expert singlestick player, ' boxer, ' and swordsman.
12. Has a good practical knowledge of British law.', '
'Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell.', '
'Do you remember what Darwin says about music? He claims that the power of producing and appreciating it existed among the human race long before the power of speech was arrived at. Perhaps that is why we are so subtly influenced by it. There are vague memories in our souls of those misty centuries when the world was in its childhood.'
That's a rather broad idea', 'I remarked.
One's ideas must be as broad as Nature if they are to interpret Nature', 'he answered.', '
'You're not hurt, ' Watson? For God's sake, ' say that you are not hurt!'
It was worth a wound -- it was worth many wounds -- to know the depth of loyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask. The clear, ' hard eyes were dimmed for a moment, ' and the firm lips were shaking. For the one and only time I caught a glimpse of a great heart as well as of a great brain. All my years of humble but single-minded service culminated in that moment of revelation.', '
'A man always finds it hard to realize that he may have finally lost a woman's love, ' however badly he may have treated her.', '
'Holmes and Watson are on a camping trip. In the middle of the night Holmes wakes up and gives Dr. Watson a nudge. 'Watson', 'he says, ' , 'look up in the sky and tell me what you see.'

'I see millions of stars, ' Holmes', 'says Watson.

'And what do you conclude from that, ' Watson?'

Watson thinks for a moment. 'Well', 'he says, ' , 'astronomically, ' it tells me that there are millions of galaxies and potentially billions of planets. Astrologically, ' I observe that Saturn is in Leo. Horologically, ' I deduce that the time is approximately a quarter past three. Meterologically, ' I suspect that we will have a beautiful day tomorrow. Theologically, ' I see that God is all-powerful, ' and we are small and insignficant. Uh, ' what does it tell you, ' Holmes?'

'Watson, ' you idiot! Someone has stolen our tent!', '
'From the first day I met her, ' she was the only woman to me. Every day of that voyage I loved her more, ' and many a time since have I kneeled down in the darkness of the night watch and kissed the deck of that ship because I knew her dear feet had trod it. She was never engaged to me. She treated me as fairly as ever a woman treated a man. I have no complaint to make. It was all love on my side, ' and all good comradeship and friendship on hers. When we parted she was a free woman, ' but I could never again be a free man.', '
'It's quite exciting', 'said Sherlock Holmes, ' with a yawn.', '
'How sweet the morning air is! See how that one little cloud floats like a pink feather from some gigantic flamingo. Now the red rim of the sun pushes itself over the London cloud-bank. It shines on a good many folk, ' but on none, ' I dare bet, ' who are on a stranger errand than you and I. How small we feel with our petty ambitions and strivings in the presence of the great elemental forces of Nature!', '

'I am somewhat exhausted; I wonder how a battery feels when it pours electricity into a non-conductor?', '
'No man burdens his mind with small matters unless he has some very good reason for doing so.', '
'There is nothing more to be said or to be done tonight, ' so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellowmen.'
'I imagine John Watson thinks love’s a mystery to me, ' but the chemistry is incredibly simple and very destructive. When we first met, ' you told me that a disguise is always a self portrait, ' how true of you, ' the combination to your safe – your measurements. But this is far more intimate. This is your heart, ' and you should never let it rule your head. You could have chosen any random number and walked out of here today with everything you worked for. But you just couldn’t resist it, ' could you? I’ve always assumed that love is a dangerous disadvantage. Thank you for the final proof.', '
